OSDOCS-3143: Add coreos-installer iso customize feature (#40954)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/installation-user-infra-machines-advanced-customizing-live-iso.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies
//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal-network-customizations.adoc

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced-customizing-live-iso_{context}"]
= Customizing a live {op-system} ISO image

> You can customize a live {op-system} ISO image directly with the `coreos-installer iso customize` subcommand. When the ISO image boots, the customizations are applied automatically.

Reviewer: Maybe after this sentence another sentence like:

> This can be used to configure the ISO to automatically install {op-system}.

This sets up the reader for the procedure a bit more.

//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal-network-customizations.adoc

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced-customizing-live-iso_{context}"]
= Customizing a live {op-system} ISO image
You can customize a live {op-system} ISO image directly with the `coreos-installer iso customize` subcommand. When you boot the ISO image, the customizations are applied automatically.

You can use this feature to configure the ISO image to automatically install {op-system}.

.Procedure

. Download the `coreos-installer` binary from the link:https://mirror.openshift.com/pub/openshift-v4/clients/coreos-installer/latest/[`coreos-installer` image mirror] page.

. Retrieve the {op-system} ISO image and the Ignition config file, and run the following command to modify the pointer config so that it is injected directly into the ISO image:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ coreos-installer iso customize rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso \
    --dest-ignition user.ign \ <1>
    --dest-device /dev/sda <2>
----

> <1> This is the pointer config that is generated from `openshift-installer`.

Author: Thanks for clarifying this! I've updated all instances to use Ignition config instead

> <1> This is the Ignition config that is generated from `openshift-installer`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> The Ignition config file that is generated from `openshift-installer`.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies
//
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing/installing_bare_metal/installing-restricted-networks-bare-metal.adoc
// * installing_bare_metal/installing-bare-metal-network-customizations.adoc

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced-customizing-live-iso_{context}"]
= Customizing a live {op-system} ISO image

> You can customize a live {op-system} ISO image directly with `coreos-installer iso customize`. When the ISO image boots, the customizations will be applied automatically.

Reviewer 3: I agree.  It'd be good to have a subsection for network configuration (`--network-keyfile`) also.

Customizations made to the ISO image using the `customize` subcommand are wrapped by the necessary Ignition config files and placed in `/etc/coreos/installer.d`. The install script then passes these files to the installer.

.Procedure

. Download the `coreos-installer` binary from the following image mirror page: https://mirror.openshift.com/pub/openshift-v4/clients/coreos-installer/latest/.

> . Retrieve the {op-system} ISO image and the Ignition config file, and run the following to customize the ISO image using the desired Ignition config:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Retrieve the {op-system} ISO image and the Ignition config file, and run the following command to customize the ISO image using the desired Ignition config:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ coreos-installer iso customize rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso \

>     --installer-config live.ign \

Author: @jlebon thanks, do you mean leave out the `--live-ignition` part and include the `--installer-config` option in this example instead?

>     --installer-config live.ign \

Reviewer 3: Both `--live-ignition` and `--installer-config` are advanced options and can be omitted.  The most common operation will probably be `--dest-ignition` (combined with `--dest-device`).

>     --dest-ignition user.ign <1>

Reviewer: If the idea is for this procedure to yield an ISO ready for automated installs, then this also requires specifying `--dest-device`.

Reviewer 3: We should explicitly call this out: if `--dest-device` is specified, the ISO will automatically run an install.  If it isn't, the ISO will be configured for installing, but will not install automatically unless the `coreos.inst.install_dev` kernel argument is specified.

----

> <1> This is the pointer config that is generated from `openshift-installer`

Reviewer 2: Missing a period

+

> Your customizations will be applied next time you boot the ISO image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your customizations are applied the next time you boot the ISO image.
```

+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> The `customize` subcommand performs some validation and will fail  if the Ignition config is invalid.

Reviewer 3: Nit: I'm not sure this needs a callout.  If users hit this, they'll know.  And we shouldn't promise validation, because coreos-installer performs basic syntax checking but doesn't do a full validation pass.

====
+
. To remove the ISO customizations and return the ISO to its pristine state so you can reuse it, run:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ coreos-installer iso reset rhcos-<version>-live.x86_64.iso
----
+
You can now re-customize the live ISO image or use it in its pristine state.

[id="installation-user-infra-machines-advanced-customizing-live-iso_custom_ca_{context}"]

> == Modifying a live install image while using a custom certificate authority

Reviewer 2: Per mod docs, this is a standalone procedure and thus should be in a standalone module file.

> You can provide CA certificates to both the installation boot and the installed system with the `--ignition-ca` flag.

Reviewer 3: Note that these CA certificates affect Ignition's fetching of remote resources such as configs, but do not affect the certificates installed onto the system.

.Procedure

. Download the `coreos-installer` binary from the following image mirror page: https://mirror.openshift.com/pub/openshift-v4/clients/coreos-installer/latest/.

> . Retrieve the {op-system} ISO image and run the following to customize the ISO image for use with a custom CA:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Retrieve the {op-system} ISO image and run the following command to customize the ISO image for use with a custom CA:
```
